# Amazon-reviews-NLP

In this project, I applied the VADER sentiment analyzer and LDA topic modeling algorithm on Amazon food reviews. The results showed overall sentiments and the main topics and concerns based on the provided dataset. I also tried to discover the topics and concerns in a product level. The project goal is to build a framework using NLP techniques to get useful insights from the reviews data, help amazon and sellers to know the overview of the current products, and know what aspects could be improved and what issues should be paying attention. Combine sentiment analysis and topic modeling of monitoring the product reviews can help uncover real-time viewpoints on products and help stakeholders to make strategic decisions.

The sentiment results showed that, positive sentiments domain and were prevalent throughout the period, people usually would like to share their good experience online and review the product with a positive attitude if possible. And the reviews that are classified into negative group are not really highly negative, sometimes I could consider them were weak positive or neutral reviews.

The topic results show that, 
1.	“taste” were highly mentioned in no matter positive and negative reviews. That might be because taste and flavor varies from person to person.  I also found that sugar, salt and ingredient were talked a lot in positive topics. Therefore, I could conclude that, in food reviews, the most important things for people are taste, flavor and ingredient. And in overall, the products did a good job on these aspects.
2.	Order and purchase experience were talked a lot in no matter positive and negative reviews. Other than the quality of foods, the shopping experience and product price were also the important topics that people care about.
3.	In the negative topics, I found that some specific products were highly talked, such as coffee, tea and pet foods. The results provided us an insight about those products, if I have more information about products, I could do further research on those products and figure out the main issues and problems they may have.

The project goal is to build a framework using NLP techniques to get useful insights from the reviews data, help amazon and sellers to know the overview of the current products, and know what aspects could be improved and what issues should be paying attention. Combine sentiment analysis and topic modelling of monitoring the product reviews can help uncover real-time viewpoints on products and help stakeholders to make strategic decisions.
